[ Music ]
>> Mike Adams: Welcome
to Secrets
to Health with Mike and Ed.
I'm Mike Adams of
naturalnews.com.
>> Dr. Edward Group:
And I'm Dr. Ed Group
with Global Healing Center.
>> Mike: And today's episode is
about your home food makeover,
and that's what this
is all about.
This table, it contains
healthy stuff
and it contains crazy
stuff that neither one
of us would normally ever
be near, but we're doing it.
We're sacrificing our health
to show you what not to eat.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah, I
mean, I've gone in pantries
of people's homes
and literally seen
over 200 different
chemical-based food items
in their pantry,
in their cabinets
and in their refrigerator
and in this freezer,
and today's episode, what we
want to do is just take some
of the more common items
that you use on a daily basis
and teach you how to
replace those toxic items
with nontoxic items.
>> Mike: Let's get started
with Doritos here, Ed,
because I know a lot of people
like to eat Doritos,
but it contains MSG.
It's got crazy chemicals in it.
It's got artificial coloring.
It's got a chemical
called disodium guanylate.
>> Dr. Group: Sounds like guano.
>> Mike: But it's another
flavoring chemical.
You know, why would
you eat this?
Why would you feed
this to your kids?
You know, that's crazy.
Let's get that out of here.
>> Dr. Group: You know how
many millions and billions
of dollars these companies make
by selling these toxic
chips and everything?
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: I mean,
seriously folks.
All these chips, this is
why we chose the chips
because people eat these every
single day, a bag of them,
or their family goes through
a bag of them and it's MSG,
which is an excitotoxin too.
>> Mike: GMO corn,
it's got GMC's in it.
Now, let's talk about the
replacement is Rhythm Super
Foods Kale Chips, nacho
favor, zesty nacho flavor.
This tastes, to me this tastes
better than Doritos and it's
so much healthier for you.
>> Dr. Group: Yes, any
type of, you know, nowadays
and every month that goes by,
you're starting to get more
and more natural
placements for everything
and that's what this
show's all about.
Look, I like the
Amy's brand too.
I mean, they have some
gluten-free chips.
They have a cool ranch
chips that taste just
like the cool ranch Doritos
except they're healthier
for you, they have organic
ingredients in there.
They're certified organic.
It's all about making that
switch from toxic to organic
and that's why we
want to show you some
of these alternatives to chips.
I mean, popcorn right here.
>> Mike: Well, let me show
you first of all, the bad side
of that, Cheetos, another
popular snack food.
If you look at the
ingredients on Cheetos,
it's also enriched
cornmeal, GMO, right.
So that's what that contains,
plus you've got monosodium
glutamate and all kinds
of odd milk extracts,
yellow number 6,
artificial colors,
things like that.
So this is another product
that I would not want
to feed someone that
I cared about.
I wouldn't want to eat
it myself, you know.
So what do you replace it with?
>> Dr. Group: But Mike, it is
made with real cheese though.
>> Mike: Yeah, real cheese.
>> Dr. Group: Cheese from bovine
growth hormone injected cattle
by the way and extremely toxic.
I mean, you wonder why
everyone has skin reactions
and allergies, because
GMO's, which don't forget
to watch our episode on
GMO's which is incredible,
the BT toxin burns holes through
the intestinal lining and all
of these chemicals and toxins
go through into the bloodstream.
So replace all your chips,
all the popular chips
with natural healthy
replacements.
>> Mike: And here's an example
of a natural replacement.
Angie's sweet and
spicy kettle corn,
non-GMO project verified
everybody.
So this is-- it tastes-- I
mean, it's an amazing taste
but there's no MSG in it,
there's no artificial
colors and it's not GMO.
So this is the kind of product
that you really want
to seek out.
Angie's is a great
brand of popcorn.
They've got different flavors.
They've got plain also.
You don't have to get flavored.
You could also just
get plain popcorn.
It's a whole grain.
It's got lots of fiber.
It helps bind with other
things that you eat
and flush them out
of your system.
It kind of has its
own detox effect.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah,
and the thing is,
you know, it's hard for people.
I get this all the time.
They're saying, well
it just doesn't taste
as good as the real brands.
The reason why those brands,
the chemical toxic brands taste
so good is because they use
chemicals, addictive chemicals.
They want you to become addicted
to their product so you buy more
and buy more and buy more.
It takes the body a little bit
of time to adapt to new flavors,
especially natural flavors,
but it will and you will start
to enjoy just as much the
natural organic things
as you did the toxic
chemical compounds.
>> Mike: Well the truth is,
most Americans in particular are
so addicted to salt and sugar
that their taste buds almost
can't taste anything else.
I mean they can't taste
the subtitles in food
so they don't sometimes
appreciate real food
because they can't
even taste it.
All they want is salt
and sugar and fat.
You know, those are
the main tastes
that the food companies
cater to.
That's why everything has
salt, sugar or fat in it.
But let's move on.
We've got a lot of
ground to cover here.
>> Dr. Group: You're right.
It's all fake food and that's
what we're talking about today.
>> Mike: Fake food.
Now we did have some fake beef
jerky here, but we decided not
to show that on camera
because it's just too toxic.
I'm going to show you
some healthy ones.
This is Organic Golden
Valley Natural Beef Jerky.
Now again, I know many of
you watching are vegans
or vegetarians and you're
not into eating beef,
but a lot of people
are into jerky products
or high protein diet people.
Here's another product
called Nick's Sticks,
which is like a Slim Jim kind
of replacement but healthy,
no hormones, certified
organic I believe.
These are the kinds of
products that you can have
as safe alternatives to
those processed beef jerkies
that you get at the
grocery store.
Almost all of which contain
MSG and sodium nitrite,
so cancer causing chemicals
in your typical beef jerkies.
>> Dr. Group: Right, and I mean
people out there that eat meat
and eat steaks and eat
chicken and eat fish out there,
I mean the problem with meat is
that it's not natural these
days, the cows, the pigs,
all that stuff, the animals,
they're not grazing
on pure grass.
What they're doing is they're
grazing on insecticide,
pesticide sprayed grass, GMO
corn and so what you get,
because a lot of the chemicals
and the toxins are
stored in the fat tissue.
And so what you get is you get
a slew of chemicals and the cows
and the slaughter houses are
schizophrenic at the time
of butchering so they have
all their stress hormones,
they rush to the meat
when they get butchered.
The problem is that
it's extremely toxic
because you have heavy metals,
you have insecticide residue,
you have recommon in both
growth hormone in the meat,
you have antibiotic
residue in there.
>> Mike: PCB's.
>> Dr. Group: You have all these
toxins and chemicals coming
into the meat and your body
is not necessarily meat
to break down the meat.
I mean, the way out teeth are,
we're not really carnivorous.
We've developed and
adapted over the years,
but we don't have a
pipe-like digestive system
like carnivorous animals do, we
don't have canine teeth to rip
and chew flesh, we don't have
hydrochloric acids secreted
in our mouth like
carnivorous animals do.
So you know my recommendation
is if you're going to eat meat,
natural replacements, grass fed
organic beef, anything that--
>> Mike: Yeah, and limit it.
>> Dr. Group: Is very
low and limit it.
>> Mike: Keep it--
keep the portions small
or I eat a little bit of
meat right now by the way.
I've been a vegan,
I've been a vegetarian,
but living on a ranch in Texas I
found I really need more density
in the food just to be able
to do the farm work that I do.
So I eat a little bit of
meat, I eat a little bit
of goat milk from our goats.
I eat chicken eggs from
our own chickens we raise.
We raise chickens
to produce eggs.
So I do eat some of
those foods and I think
that vegetarianism is a great
detox diet, but it's really hard
to live on a ranch and be
100 percent vegetarian.
So I try to find
balance in that.
>> Mike: Yeah, and you made
a good point with milk too.
I mean milk is another extremely
toxic substance out there,
especially if it's been
pasteurized and homogenized.
I mean they've found, you
know, a massive amount of pus
in the milk because
most of the cows
that are milked have
mastitis going on and a slew
of other chemicals,
insecticides, blood in milk
and I think the FDA even allows,
you know, a massive amount
of particles per cup of pus
and they say that it's safe.
But milk is-- it causes
an allergic reaction.
I mean, if it's raw it's
okay, raw goat's milk.
>> Mike: It's digestible.
>> Dr. Group: Raw cow's milk.
I would recommend
raw goat's milk.
>> Mike: Absolutely.
>> Dr. Group: Because I think
it's better than cow's milk.
But some natural alternatives
to milk would be an almond milk,
let's say, or a hemp
milk or a coconut milk.
>> Mike: Definitely.
>> Dr. Group: Or you can
even mix the different types
of natural milks together and,
you know, if you're using milk
for cereal, if you're
using milk for your coffee,
whatever you're using it
for, our recommendation is
to switch away from the
pasteurized store bought milk
products and either go
with an organic raw milk
or a natural almond,
hemp, coconut,
something like that milk.
>> Mike: I like almond
milk the best.
Let's go to some pancake mixes.
Now these products here,
Crusty's Blueberry Pancake Mix,
this does not contain
blueberries
and we've done an episode
on fake food ingredients.
This is another example.
Hungry Jack Easy Pack
Blueberry Wheat Pancake Mix,
also does not contain
blueberries.
So don't trust the labels.
Instead, I recommend
this gluten-free.
This company's called
1, 2, 3 Gluten-Free.
This is a buckwheat and I think
it's got some rice flour in it.
This is a super delicious
pancake mix.
I love this.
It's the best I've ever
found that's gluten-free
and you can add blueberries
in it.
Just take-- just buy some
freeze dried blueberries,
put them in the mix, you
get real blueberry pancakes.
That's what you're looking for.
So you know, these brand
names that are popular,
this is what's purchased
by people
who don't know what
they're eating, Ed.
>> Dr. Group: And they
just don't want to cook.
I mean we've came into a society
that everybody wants everything
packaged already, ready to eat,
easy to put on the table.
They either microwave it
real fast or they mix it
with hot water, tap water
and they put it on the table.
Here's what we're trying to say,
we know where that's gotten us.
It's gotten us a
nation that's sick,
a nation that has too
many chemicals coming
in their body every
day from food.
Here's what we have to do.
We have to kind of go back
to the roots again
and cook our self.
I mean cooking is
actually healing in itself.
>> Mike: Absolutely.
>> Dr. Group: Next time instead
of buying the store bought,
you know, pancakes or whatever,
I mean I know everybody's
in a hurry but start looking
at cooking your own meals again
because you put energy into
the meals when you cook it.
If you're happy, that
happy energy goes in.
I mean--
>> Mike: It doesn't have to
be complicated either, Ed.
>> Dr. Group: It doesn't.
>> Mike: Like for
example, just take cereal.
You could but this, what
is this, honey nut squares
from HEB, which is loaded
with probably corn
syrup and other things.
You know, I mean I'm not total--
yeah, corn meal, sugar, honey,
corn fiber, brown sugar syrup
on top of the other sugars,
so that's pretty wild.
You know, just toss that.
Instead, or here's one,
Honey Graham O's from Quaker,
kind of processed
refined ingredients,
not your best choice.
What's on there?
>> Dr. Group: Corn flour,
brown sugar, you know,
all the different types
of-- soy bean oil, palm oil,
graham flour, corn syrup, BHT.
>> Mike: It's got to be GMO
too because it's not certified.
>> Dr. Group: It's
all GMO, absolutely.
>> Mike: Look, just
go with Nature's Path.
This is a cereal company
right here, Nature's Path,
this is the company,
this is the product.
Nature's Path Cereals are all
100 percent organic non-GMO
and that's just-- if you
want to keep it simple,
and it takes just as much time
to eat Nature's Path Cereal
as it does to eat
these other cereals.
You just make a choice.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah, let's
say that you eat cereal,
this toxic cereal in the morning
with toxic milk on top of it.
You might be taking in
50,000 toxins from this.
You change the next
day to an organic one
with an all organic
almond or something.
You've just taken 50,000 toxins
out of your daily life just
with one tiny change and it
really didn't even cost you
that much difference in cost.
>> Mike: Right, you're really--
a lot of people complain
about the cost of clean food
and organic food, but you're
paying for what's not in there.
You know, you're paying
to be not polluted
with the mercury that's in
corn syrup, for example,
high fructose corn syrup, often
contaminated with mercury.
You're paying for the
lack of pesticides
and the more people
I think understand
about the toxic effects of these
elements and these chemicals,
the more they're going to be
willing to pay a little extra
to keep their body free
from those chemicals, so.
>> Dr. Group: You know,
you made a good point.
It's actually very sad that
we have to pay to eat healthy.
You know what I mean?
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: It's like, isn't
that where our tax money goes
to the government so they can--
the FDA, so they can regulate
and take all this stuff
out of food, but--
>> Mike: Well but speaking
of money, how about this?
You've got the 100 Grand
candy bar right here.
Now 100 Grand isn't what
it used to be thanks
to the federal reserve,
quantitative easing
and money printing, but it's
still got a lot of sugar in it.
So what do you do
instead of a candy bar?
Well here's-- I've got a lot
of recommendations on that.
You could go with Bodacious
Banana Bread from Living Nut,
this is a great company.
Really delicious, all natural
ingredients, sprouted nuts
with banana and sometimes
they'll use maple syrup
and different ingredients.
It's super delicious.
>> Dr. Group: Dates.
>> Mike: Dates, yeah, things
like that, or you could go
with even this isn't organic,
but the company's called
Kind Nuts and Spices Bar.
It's not organic, but the
ingredients are really simple
and straightforward, no
crazy stuff in there.
And then you've got
this, Annie's.
The Annie's Company, they make
a lot of different products.
They have a peanut butter
and jelly chewy granola bar.
You know, your kids
will love this.
This is the kind of
thing that you can use
to replace a candy bar.
You know, why feed your kids
junk, right, or yourself?
>> Dr. Group: You know, it's
not only feeding them junk,
but then again, you know,
they're addicted to the sugars,
they start their whole life
eating candy bars, you know,
Halloween comes around and you
have all the candy associated
with Halloween.
The fact of the matter is,
all the candy bars out there
that you're going to get in any
general supermarket are going
to be extremely toxic
and there are good,
natural alternatives
that, you know,
any natural health food
store now, it used to be
where they only had, like,
three or four different types
of natural bars but now
they have half an aisle full
of natural bars that
you can choose from.
>> Mike: A lot.
>> Dr. Group: I tell you what I
like is the Navitoss [phonetic]
Power Snacks, and we use this
in the super food recipe too,
which is the cacoa goji
[phonetic] super food
and it's basically like
little chocolate brownies.
I mean, it's a great
snack except it's all raw,
it's very healthy for you and
it fills you up and, you know,
I'd much rather have this.
Thank god I was never,
like, addicted to chocolate
or anything like that, but these
are great and they're great
for a sweet tooth and
they're actually nutritious.
>> Mike: In them--
here's another company
called Little Duck Organics.
This company makes just
freeze dried fruit snacks,
that's all that are
is freeze dried fruit.
This is strawberry and mango.
I like to take some of these
and just put them on cereal.
They're USDA organic
and if I'm eating
like a healthy buckwheat cereal,
there's a Quinoa
cereal that's out there.
It's like Quinoa O's, kind
of like Cheerios but made
with Quinoa without
the corn syrup,
and you put some freeze
dried fruit on that cereal
and you've got yourself
a really delicious bowl
of cereal that's totally
natural, all organic, you know,
no crazy ingredients in there.
So you know, check
out this company.
>> Dr. Group: Plus, you know,
when you understand this,
then you feel good
about eating it.
It's not--
>> Mike: Don't go on a
guilt trip on your food.
>> Dr. Group: You're
eating all this chemical,
toxic, high sugar stuff.
At least you could say I'm
eating something healthy
and organic.
>> Mike: Are you sure you
don't want some Pop Tarts, Ed,
with some sprinkles on top?
>> Dr. Group: I tell you what?
It makes it look really good,
but I know, I'm a label reader
and really what we're
trying to say is you have
to become a label reader
and we keep saying that over
and over in all the episodes.
But really to understand
the food
and understand the food
ingredients that you're using
and that you have in your
kitchen, you really have
to understand what's going on.
It's really simple though.
If you don't understand what
the name of the ingredient is,
if it's something manmade,
then just avoid it at all cost
because that means
that it's not going
to do anything good
inside your body.
It's simplicity, is
it made by nature?
It works in the body.
If it's made by man, it
doesn't work in the body.
>> Mike: And this
is a great example
of some label claims
on these Pop Tarts.
Look, even though
this is a refined,
processed high sugar junk food,
they could still claim
cholesterol free on the label
and a good source of four B
vitamins and a good source
of other vitamins and minerals.
Well you know, I could
take a vat of mercury
and say that's cholesterol free.
You know, I would take a
giant lump of lead and say,
that's mercury free, you know.
You can always say
it's free of something.
It doesn't mean it's real food.
It doesn't mean it's nutritious.
So beware of the claims
and these companies,
Kellogg's in this case, oh,
and look, sponsor the Olympics.
>> Dr. Group: That's crazy.
>> Mike: Athletes.
>> Dr. Group: Pop Tarts are a
crazy good part of breakfast.
>> Mike: Yeah, definitely
the crazy is true.
But can you imagine
trying to compete
in the Olympics living
on Pop Tarts?
You would lose.
You would not get a gold
medal, a silver medal.
You would get, like, the--
I don't know, the [inaudible]
medal that poisons you
when you wear it
around your neck.
It's that bad.
>> Dr. Group: You know, but it
makes the general consumer think
that if you eat this, you'll
be like an Olympic athlete.
>> Mike: Well hey, the
Olympics will take money
from any poison company.
McDonald, junk food company,
Olympics takes money
from everybody so.
In fact, when I see an
Olympics logo on something,
usually in my mind
that's a red flag.
It's like don't buy that because
they'll take money from anybody.
>> Dr. Group: Exactly.
>> Mike: But enough about
the Olympics, anyway.
Some other healthy--
some healthy bars,
this one's called Simple
Squares right here,
a nut and honey confection.
This one here is called
Go Raw, Live Granola Bar,
and it's just a real
simple granola bar.
I know they're kind of small.
They might be hard to see,
but there's so many
options out there.
You don't have to be limited.
You can shop online.
Amazon.com carries this stuff.
You've got a store, I've got a
store, lots of other retailers
out there online with
healthy products.
You've got tons of choices.
>> Dr. Group: Right, and I mean
with online, the ability online
to search for replacements,
you can slowly, you don't have
to do everything at
once, but start going
through your cabinets, start
going through your pantries
and just pick out three
or four different things.
I mean a lot of people
have soup stocked
in their pantry, toxic soup.
And what they have is
those are in aluminum cans,
those are high in salt products.
Speaking of salt, actually we
brought some salt samples here
because it's one of the
main food ingredients
that is toxic, regular
table salt.
And not all salt these
days is iodized anymore.
We just happened to bring
a common toxic salt,
which is iodized, but
they've actually taken iodine
out of most of the
salt product out there.
Now this is highly
processed, bleached,
it has calcium silicate in it.
>> Dr. Group: This is
actually very dangerous
for you to consume.
Now what's happened though is
everybody goes to the doctor,
they have high blood pressure,
they have high cholesterol
and the doctor says well,
limit your salt intake.
Our body, if you look
at the water in our body
and measure it, it's almost
exactly the composition
of sea water.
Our body is supposed to be
salt, just not the toxic salt.
>> Mike: And when you
say this is dangerous,
I want to just clarify
what you're referring to is
that this is isolated sodium
chloride where normal sea water,
normal healthy human blood
needs to have a full complement
of minerals, even magnesium
and manganese and zinc
and certain species of
chromium for example.
These kind of minerals
make the full compliment.
You know sea water has, I don't
know 80 something minerals.
>> Dr. Group: 84 minerals.
>> Mike: Yeah, and that's what
your blood is supposed to have.
That's what food is
supposed to have.
So you know, Morton Iodized Salt
is, they say it's got purity.
That's true.
It is pure, but it's pure sodium
chloride with a flow agent.
It doesn't have these other
elements that you need
to have complete nutrition.
Your body, remember,
minerals are catalyst
for biological cellular
function.
If you don't have
the right mineral,
you don't have a catalyst
to make something happen,
protein synthesis, the
healing process, transportation
of toxins out of your
cells and out of your body,
your liver can't function
correctly and so on.
So by eating this you
are displacing salt
that is a full spectrum salt
that would provide the
minerals that you need.
So I just want to be clear,
this itself, you couldn't say
that this itself is a poison,
but it's displacing the
nutrients that you need
to stay healthy therefore this
indirectly skews your health
and makes you nutrient depleted.
>> Dr. Group: There's
not a balance
of all the minerals that you--
>> Mike: Exactly.
>> Dr. Group: That's why
I recommend, you know,
a Celtic salt or a
Himalayan crystal salt.
I mean, this is straight pink
Himalayan crystal salt form,
there's nothing that's
been done to it
and it has all the 84
minerals that you need
and it's just a simple
replacement, you know,
replace your toxic
salt with natural salt.
It's just another way that
you can become healthy
and eliminate the toxic
chemical based or bleached
or processed foods
from your life.
>> Mike: And it tastes
better too.
The Himalayan salt is really--
>> Dr. Group: It tastes great.
>> Mike: Delicious
because it's full spectrum.
All right, let's talk
about flour next, Ed,
because white flour is
kind of the same situation
where it is refined
and the nutrients
that are normally present
in the whole grain wheat berry
are lacking here, the fiber,
the oils, some of the proteins
and definitely the minerals
and phytonutrients or vitamins
are missing from white flour.
It's just empty calories.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah, they just
take something very good,
like something grown naturally
and process it into a flour.
Another thing too is
they actually add bromide
to flour these days.
They used to add iodine, which
was a very essential nutrient,
and now what's happening
is you're seeing
so many thyroid dysfunction,
you're seeing
so many deficiencies in iodine
all over the world right now.
Bromide is actually a
halogen just like iodine
and fluoride and chlorine.
>> Mike: Chlorine, yeah.
>> Dr. Group: And that's
also going to fight
for the receptor sites in
the thyroid and it's going
to cause major problems.
So some natural replacements to
the white flour would be again,
organic alternatives
such as rye flour,
buckwheat flour, coconut flour.
You know, I recommend
a gluten-free diet
because gluten is a toxin to
the body that's a protein.
The body doesn't know
how to react to it.
It causes inflammation
of the intestinal lining,
causes celiac disease and really
the majority of people walking
around out there, I would say
about 70 percent have a reaction
to gluten every single
time and don't know it.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: Exactly.
>> Mike: Right.
>> Dr. Group: So you take
people off gluten and all
of the sudden their health
just starts to go get better
and get better and
get better, so.
>> Mike: Let's talk about
a couple more replacements.
So instead of drinking a sports
drink like Power Aid or Gatorade
or something like that,
I recommend a coconut
water product.
Those are more readily
available now,
but you can also do
something like this.
This company, Actives,
makes different powders.
This is an organic
blueberry powder.
You simply mix it with water,
maybe put a little Stevia in it
if you want to sweeten it up,
you've got a purple-colored
drink
that is far healthier
for you than this.
And if you want the
so-called electrolytes,
you've gotta have
electrolytes just
like in the movie Idiocracy,
all that is is basically salt.
You put a little salt in with
this, you've got electrolytes.
You know, it's not
that complicated.
>> Dr. Group: But yeah, just put
a little Himalayan crystal salt
in there and then you
have your electrolytes.
Or what you can do is add
a little organic apple
cider vinegar.
I love this stuff.
I mean, it has all kinds
of minerals, it's alive,
it's got enzymes, it's got
all the different types
of probiotics in there.
I mean this thing is incredible.
I use this pretty
much everything,
and I recommend this
also for people who want
to use salad dressings.
I mean you can mix it with a
little organic balsamic vinegar
and it makes a really
good replacement for stuff
like this, which is your toxic--
>> Mike: I bet that's MSG.
>> Dr. Group: MSG vegetable oil,
soybean oil, egg yolk, sugar,
salt, phosphoric acids,
steric acids, zanthum gum.
I mean the list goes on
and on and on and on.
>> Mike: Hey, beware folks
of anything labeled ranch.
Ranch almost 100 percent
of the time contains MSG.
It's just part of the
ranch flavor apparently.
Now let's also talk
about soy sauce.
Here's, this is La
Choy brand and I happen
to be sensitive to MSG.
I can't eat regular soy
sauce, even the other brands.
>> Dr. Group: I'm
sensitive to MSG too.
Everybody's sensitive to MSG and
a lot of people don't even know
when they're eating it.
>> Mike: This is a
solution right here.
It's called raw coconut
aminos and this is,
this is the company
here, Coconut Secret.
This is the only soy
sauce that I can eat
without getting a
headache and I was so happy
to make this discovery, that's
why I want to share it with you,
coconut aminos, that's
the solution.
I guess it doesn't have the
free glutamates or glutamic acid
in it that the other
soy sauces have.
>> Dr. Group: So it's not
technically a soy sauce.
>> Mike: Yeah, it's
not a soy sauce.
>> Dr. Group: It's a--
>> Mike: It's from coconuts.
>> Dr. Group: Soy
sauce replacement.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: But
I'll tell you what.
When I saw that Mike
brought this in,
I was like that's
amazing because I'm going
to have to get some of that.
I like to cook some of
the Asian dishes and stuff
and we need a-- this is amazing.
I mean I would recommend
everybody get rid of the soy
in their kitchen,
all soy products.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: Because
all soy products,
unless they're organic,
are going to be GMO.
>> Mike: Right, they're
going to be GMO.
And by the way, if you want to
get some of this coconut aminos,
you better go out and
buy it now because now
that we mentioned it, there's
not that much available.
It's kind of a short
supply item.
>> Dr. Group: Especially small
companies that are trying
to make a difference and trying
to give us natural replacements
for all these toxic compounds.
>> Mike: Exactly.
All right, Dr. Pepper,
this is just a stand
in for any random soda.
Instead of drinking
soda in a can,
how about La Crois [phonetic].
This is just a lemon
flavor sparkling water.
You know, it replaces soda,
it's a similar experience.
A lot of the soda addiction
is not the soda itself,
but all the things that go with
it, you're opening the can,
the fizz, the, you know, the
holding the aluminum can,
the coldness of it,
all these things.
And this soda helps,
this natural sparkling water I
should say, helps simulate that
but there's no aspartame,
there's no high fructose
corn syrup
and there's no phosphoric
acid in it.
So you're eliminating all
those potential toxins.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah, you know,
talking about phosphoric acid
and MSG and aspartame, those
are all high excitotoxins.
Those excitotoxins cause extreme
damage on the brain tissue
and nobody can really
tell you what happens
when you put multiple
excitotoxins
in except it can exacerbate
by up to 5,000 percent.
>> Mike: Speaking of
excitotoxins, I have a jar
of MSG here, pure MSG.
This is real.
This is not even
contrived or anything.
That's real MSG.
We've also got real
pure aspartame here,
laboratory quality supplies
here that we've got.
And in fact, I've
got these specimens
for testing in the lab.
Now the replacement for
aspartame is of course Stevia.
So here's a Stevia bottle.
This is actually a now foods
certified organic Stevia
Extract, very simple
to use, replaces sugar
and other artificial sweeteners.
I use it all the time.
>> Dr. Group: Yes,
I mean the thing is,
there are natural replacements
out there and MSG is used
in practically everything
you have in your kitchen.
And when you go out
to restaurants too,
be sure to always ask
for natural replacements.
Choose restaurants
that use natural salts.
that don't use MSG.
Choose restaurants that
don't have toxic things.
One thing we didn't
even cover is ketchup.
I mean, ketchup is everywhere
and that's just pure
high fructose corn syrup
and it just causes all
kinds of damage to the body.
>> Mike: Yeah.
You can get ketchup without
high fructose corn syrup now,
you know, natural ketchup.
I think Annie's makes a
natural ketchup as well.
Anyway, we did a great job, Ed.
We cleared the table, we covered
all the replacements and I hope
that we shared some good
information that you can use
in making choices in your
own food in your own home.
>> Dr. Group: I mean
now it's up to you.
I mean now it's time to just
go through your kitchen,
go through your area, you know,
and not only go through it
and replace the toxic
substances with non-toxic,
but teach your family
how to read labels.
>> Mike: Thanks for
watching Secrets to Health.
Take care.
[ Music ]